Networking Terms

Here you can find some of the networking terms/basics
that i talk about throughout the course!

1) What is the difference between a public and
private IP address?
All IPv4 IP addresses can be divided into two major
groups: global, or public, or external - this group can also
be called 'WAN addresses' — those that are used in the
Internet, and private, or local, or internal addresses —
those that are used in the local network (LAN).

 
2) Public IP-address
It is public global addresses that are used in the Internet.
A public IP address is an IP address that is used to access
the Internet. Public (global) IP addresses are routed on
the Internet, unlike private addresses.
The presence of a public IP address on your router or
computer will allow you to organize your own server
(VPN, FTP, WEB, etc.), remote access to your computer,
video surveillance cameras, and access them from
anywhere in the global network.
With a public IP address, you can set up any home server
to publish it on the Internet: Web (HTTP), VPN (PPTP/
IPSec/OpenVPN), media (au dio/video), FTP, NAS network
drive, game server, etc.

3) Private IP-address
Private internal addresses are not routed on the Internet
and no traffic cannot be sent to them from the Internet,
they only supposed to work within the local network.
Private addresses include IP addresses from the following
subnets:
Range from 10.0.0.0 to 10.255.255.255 — a 10.0.0.0
network with a 255.0.0.0 or an /8 (8-bit) mask
Range from 172.16.0.0 to 172.31.255.255 — a 172.16.0.0
network with a 255.240.0.0 (or a 12-bit) mask
A 192.168.0.0 to 192.168.255.255 range, which is a
192.168.0.0 network masked by 255.255.0.0 or /16
A special range 100.64.0.0 to 100.127.255.255 with a
255.192.0.0 or /10 network mask;
 Direct Communication between these 2 is not possible!

4) What is DNS ?
Domain Name Server (DNS) is a standard protocol that
helps Internet users discover websites using human
readable addresses. Like a phonebook which lets you look
up the name of a person and discover their number, DNS
lets you type the address of a website and automatically
discover the Internet Protocol (IP) address for that
website.
Without DNS, the Internet would collapse - it would be
impossible for people and machines to access Internet
servers via the friendly URLs they have come to know.

5) What is DHCP ?
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a network
management protocol used to automate the process of
configuring devices on IP networks, thus allowing them to
use network services such as DNS, NTP, and any
communication protocol based on UDP or TCP. A DHCP
server dynamically assigns an IP address and other
network configuration parameters to each device on a
network so they can communicate with other IP
Networks.

6) What is a Router ?
A router is a device that communicates between the
internet and the devices in your home that connect to
the internet. As its name implies, it “routes” traffic
between the devices and the internet.
A router is a physical or virtual appliance that passes
information between two or more packet-switched
computer networks. A router inspects a given data
packet's destination Internet Protocol address (IP
address), calculates the best way for it to reach its
destination and then forwards it accordingly.
A router is a common type of gateway. It is positioned
where two or more networks meet at each point of
presence on the internet. Hundreds of routers might
forward a single packet as it moves from one network to
the next on the way to its final destination.

7) Virtual Box Networking
Okay, had to add this in as it is important in setting up
our environment and this is where 99% of issues occur!
All of the information about Virtual Box and its Network
Settings you can actually find right here:
https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch06.html
But I am going to write the definition of 2 most
important things for this course regarding Virtual Box
Networking(these will be important once we actually set
up our virtual machine and its network settings and also
make sure to read about them on the link above in case
you wonder how they work or what are their limitations):

7.1) NAT - Network Address Translation (NAT) is the
simplest way of accessing an external network from a
virtual machine. Usually, it does not require any
configuration on the host network and guest system. For
this reason, it is the default networking mode in Oracle
VM VirtualBox.
A virtual machine with NAT enabled acts much like a real
computer that connects to the Internet through a router.
The router, in this case, is the Oracle VM VirtualBox
networking engine, which maps traffic from and to the
virtual machine transparently. In Oracle VM VirtualBox
this router is placed between each virtual machine and
the host. This separation maximizes security since by
default virtual machines cannot talk to each other.
The disadvantage of NAT mode is that, much like a
private network behind a router, the virtual machine is
invisible and unreachable from the outside internet.

7.2) With bridged networking, Oracle VM VirtualBox
uses a device driver on your host system that filters data
from your physical network adapter. This driver is
therefore called a net filter driver. This enables Oracle
VM VirtualBox to intercept data from the physical
network and inject data into it, effectively creating a
new network interface in software. When a guest is using
such a new software interface, it looks to the host
system as though the guest were physically connected to
the interface using a network cable. The host can send
data to the guest through that interface and receive data
from it. This means that you can set up routing or
bridging between the guest and the rest of your network.

8) What are TCP & UDP ?
Actually this website explains it really well (we also do
cover this inside of the course so you can wait for those
lectures as well or you can learn it right now here!):
https://www.privateinternetaccess.com/blog/tcp-vsudp-
understanding-the-difference/

9) What is ARP ?
This is actually also something we cover in the course
but perhaps you just like to know about it before we
get to it:
In order to be able to send data packets in TCP/IP
networks, a transmitter requires three bits of address
information to be sent via the host: the subnet mask, the
IP address and the MAC address (also the hardware
address or physical address). Your netmask and IP address
receive network devices automatically and flexibly when
they connect to a network. For this purpose, the
connecting communication devices, such as routers or
hubs, revert to the DHCP protocol. In local networks, the
two entries can also be entered manually. The hardware
address is, however, assigned by the manufacturer of the
respective device and is linked to a specific IP address by
means of the so-called Address Resolution Protocol (ARP).
----------------------------------------------------------------------
---------
If you want to know even more about networking and all
the different protocols that we use or not use inside of
the course, take a look at this simple networking guide!
